# Perovskite machine learning tutorial

A simple tutorial showing you how to perform machine learning on the [K supercomputer double perovskite dataset](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.jpclett.7b02203), containing band gaps calculated using an accurate but computationally expensive method (hybrid functionals with spin orbit interaction). This tutorial follows from a lecture given at Cal State LA from the weeks of May 20 to May 24, 2019. Starting from the chemical formula, we use regular expressions to extract which atoms comprise the compounds, and generate atomic features. Then, we feed these atomic features to a random forest algorithm, train it, and demonstrate how hyperparameter tuning is done.

The main code to follow along is in Jupyter Notebook (`.ipynb`) format. All the other files will be utilized and explained in the notebooks, except for `.gitignore` (this file simply tells Git to ignore auto-save files generated by Jupyter; you may ignore it with no consequence). If you wish to follow along, please complete `part_1_process_data.ipynb` before completing `part_2_random_forest.ipynb`.

**Important!** The code from these notebooks was run live during a lecture. The hyperparameter tuning is **very** minimal; one can certainly do much better than this. Moreover, there are other machine learning algorithms that perform better than a random forest, such as XGBoost. However, I kept it simple so that the audience would be familiarized with scikit-learn and it would run quickly when doing a live demo.
